= Trim

== Description

The trim gem is a wrapper for the tr.im URL shortening service, 
which can be found at http://tr.im/

This software is not affiliated with tr.im in any way. tr.im is 
a product of The Nambu Network: http://www.nambu.com/.

== Installation

First, if you do not already have GitHub in your gem sources, 
execute the following command to add it:

    sudo gem sources -a http://gems.github.com

Then you can install this gem with:
  
    sudo gem install svenaas-trim
    
If you prefer not to add GitHub to your gem sources, install via:

    sudo gem install svenaas-trim -s http://gems.github.com 
    
Windows users should omit the sudo, of course.

== Usage

    require 'trim'
    
    Trim.trim('http://www.google.com') # Returns trimmed URL, or nil if any error occurs
    
If you want to use an account that tr.im knows about you can provide 
your valid username and password:
    
    Trim.trim('http://www.google.com', 'username', 'password')

NOTE: as of this writing (3 Mar 2009) tr.im does not support SSL so 
this username and password will be sent over unencrypted HTTP.

== Testing

The standard tests run via
    
    rake test
    
use mock code to verify functionality instead of depending on 
online interaction with tr.im's servers. This is done for several
reasons, primarily because the service provider deserves this basic 
consideration, but also because tr.im limits the number of URLs
which can be shortened during a particular amount of time. 

If you need to verify online functionality you can run 

    rake test:online
    
for simple-case testing that the servers are reachable via the
expected address and API. Please note that this test consumes
online resources, and use it sparingly. 

== License

Copyright (c) 2009 Sven Aas

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.